# ProductsApi
Spring ApiRest for Products

## Features:
This spring/maven project allows you to access a product data base in mysql from the web.
The spring project is in the file spring.products.
Products Data Base is also included in a sqlfile.
Tests in JUnit working 100%.
#### Bonus
The file named as angular.products has an angular interface that allows you to see a list of products consuming the Product Api.
Also has a PlanetService to access the Planet Project Api by Matias Luna.

### ProductService

#### getProducts() : List<ProductDTO>
--Allowing you get all the Products from the data base in a List of ProductDTO.
--Returns a List of ProductDTO.

#### getProductById(Long productId) : ProductDTO
--Allowing you to get a Product from the data base, searched by its id.
---Important: The productId is the key to search the existing Product.
..............The method throws a ResourceExistingException if the Product does not exist.
--Returns the searched Product.

#### createProduct(ProductDTO product) : ProductDTO
--Allows you to create a new Product based in a ProductDTO and persist it in the data base.
---Important: The Id is autogenerated, the productName and the productCode have to be original (as a Bussines Rule).
--------------The method throws an ExistingEntityException if the name or the code already exists.
--Returns the new created Product.

#### editProduct(ProductDTO product) : ProductDTO
--Allowing you to edit an existing Product based in the productId field of the ProductDTO.
---Important: The Id is the key to search the existing entity, the other fields int de ProductDTO are the new ones that will be set.
--------------This means that the new ones replace the existent (be carefull).
--------------If the Id does not match an existing Product the method throws a ResourceAccessException.
--------------If the new productName and productCode already exist the method throws an ExistingEntityException.
--Returns the edited Product.

#### deleteProduct(Long productId) : ProductDTO
--Allows you to delete fisically a Product, the row in the table is droped.
---Important: The productId is the key to find the existing Product to delete.
--------------The method throws a ResourceAccesException if the Product does not exist.
--Returns the deleted Product.

#### validate (String name, String code, Long id) : boolean
--To validate the name and code of the Product.

### ProductController 
The access to the Api.
For more details see the Apiary Documentation.

### IProductRepository
Interface that extends from JpaRepository, allowing you to access the data base.

### ProductDTO
Objects that allow comunication between the controller and the outside, and between the service and the controller.

### Product
The entity especification to model Products.
